That's a humanitarian aid
that we're supposed
to have already gone into Gaza t
Well, now cross the Egyptian bor
within the next
24 to 48 hours, supposedly
in about 200 trucks
which carrying dire
humanitarian aid water
and food and medicine
are just sitting there
just a short distance away
from the tens of thousands of Pa
civilians, innocent civilians
who desperately need it.
The United Nations
calling this a difference
between life and death.
CNN's Clarissa Ward is in Cairo,
for us.
And Clarissa,
officials say
road repairs were needed
before the crucial aid
could pass through.
Is that really the only reason f
13 day long delay so far,
No, Jake, it's not.
We were actually at the Rafah bo
crossing today.
The U.N.
says there's a number of other i
firstly, the issue of the Israel
wanting to verify everything
that's in those trucks
to make sure there's no weapons
and they need to come up
with some kind of a mechanism to
But that takes time.
How would they do that?
Where would they do that?
The second issue, they say,
is that they don't want this
to be a one off of
just 20 trucks going in
and they want to have an agreeme
in place
for a sustained, continuous
humanitarian corridor.
They're worried potentially
that their trucks and their work
could get attacked or mobbed
if it's just that one,
one sort of shipment
or movement of tow trucks.
All of this, though, Jake,
is really coming down to the wir
now with steel stocks about to r
in a matter of days
and anger getting ever, ever hig
Take a look.
For days,
they have
been waiting
more than 200 trucks
full of aid
desperately needed in Gaza,
but stuck on the Egyptian side
of the Rafah border crossing.
U.N.
Secretary General
Antonio Guterres
hope to be here
for a much needed diplomatic win
as quickly as possible.
Instead,
he found himself in the midst
of a protest.
His remarks drowned out by the c
People are chanting over and ove
with our blood, with our souls.
We will defend Palestine
There's a huge amount of anger,
a huge amount of emotion,
much of it directed at the West.
We need justice.
We're need justice.
And much also at Western media,
who people here
feel have favored
Israeli voices over Palestinians
where you a protester
starts shouting at me.
We invite her to do an interview
When a thousand plus
Palestinian babies die,
you don't feel the same
You don't feel the same
as when I tell you
one of your own has died.
But these are our own
and it is unfair.
And Egypt will stand with Palest
All Western
journalists are talking for Isra
If the United Nations
standing for Israel,
all these international institut
are standing for Israel,
who is there for the Palestinian
And don't call it a war?
The jargon is even more infuriat
So the war there not equal footi
It is not a war.
For many, it is deeply personal.
Palestinian man holds up his ID.
I can't contact with my family,
their families.
On the other side,
I have seven sister and my fathe
My mother grandmother, uncles.
All my family is there.
I can contact with them.
I don't know everything okay?
I don't know if they are okay or
As Egyptian soldiers stand
by, the demonstrators get more a
Protests are normally illegal he
But today, the Egyptian presiden
called on people to take to the
So this is rapidly becoming
a very chaotic scene.
Now,
They're trying to get
the secretary general out of her
We were ordered back onto the bu
and escorted out
through the crowd, back to Rush
where piles of aid sit by the ru
so close to where they need to b
but held back, the U.N.
says, by complications over
how to monitor the trucks that e
and how to establish
a continuous humanitarian corrid
When you saw the anger
of those protesters,
most of it
leveled at Israel and the U.S.,
but also at the international co
for failing to stop the situatio
What's your response?
I think
what's important to say
is that we are doing everything
engaging with all the parties
to make sure
that sooner rather than later,
we are able to have
not only a first convoy,
but continued aid
to the population in Gaza.
I think
it should be as quickly
as possible and
with as many
as possible trucks
to cross in the first few days.
But that is little comfort
to the people of Gaza,
for whom every day, every hour i
vital
Jake,
one of the other
sticking points here
appears to be the issue of fuel.
There has been agreement
about food,
about medicine, about water,
but fuel is desperately needed t
the generators
that are keeping
those hospitals
going, that are keeping
those refugee centers
overwhelmed as they are still go
President Biden,
as you mentioned
in the introduction, said
hopefully within 24 to 48 hours,
we may start to see movement,
but there are still obstacles
to overcome.
The secretary general saying
he desperately need to end this
impasse Jake.
All right.
Clarissa Ward in Cairo, Egypt fo
Thank you so much. This.